callback metadata may be attached to a function declaration, or definition. (Call sites are excluded only due to the lack of a use case.) For ease of exposition, we’ll refer to the function annotated w/ metadata as a broker function. The metadata describes how the arguments of a call to the broker are in turn passed to the callback function specified by the metadata. Thus, the callback metadata provides a partial description of a call site inside the broker function with regards to the arguments of a call to the broker. The only semantic restriction on the broker function itself is that it is not allowed to inspect or modify arguments referenced in the callback metadata as pass-through to the callback function.
The broker is not required to actually invoke the callback function at runtime. However, the assumptions about not inspecting or modifying arguments that would be passed to the specified callback function still hold, even if the callback function is not dynamically invoked. The broker is allowed to invoke the callback function more than once per invocation of the broker. The broker is also allowed to invoke (directly or indirectly) the function passed as a callback through another use. Finally, the broker is also allowed to relay the callback callee invocation to a different thread.
The metadata is structured as follows: At the outer level, callback metadata is a list of callback encodings. Each encoding starts with a constant i64 which describes the argument position of the callback function in the call to the broker. The following elements, except the last, describe what arguments are passed to the callback function. Each element is again an i64 constant identifying the argument of the broker that is passed through, or i64 -1 to indicate an unknown or inspected argument. The order in which they are listed has to be the same in which they are passed to the callback callee. The last element of the encoding is a boolean which specifies how variadic arguments of the broker are handled. If it is true, all variadic arguments of the broker are passed through to the callback function after the arguments encoded explicitly before.
In the code below, the pthread_create function is marked as a broker through the !callback !1 metadata. In the example, there is only one callback encoding, namely !2, associated with the broker. This encoding identifies the callback function as the second argument of the broker (i64 2) and the sole argument of the callback function as the third one of the broker function (i64 3)
